README.md, before:

# markdown-it-vitepress-demo

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/markdown-it-vitepress-demo?color=a1b858&label=)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/markdown-it-vitepress-demo)

`markdown-it-vitepress-demo` is a `markdown-it` plugin specifically designed for Vitepress demos. It converts code blocks in Markdown into references to the `<demo-container>` component. It does not generate UI itself but serves as a plugin for creating demo containers. This means that you need to implement and register the `<demo-container>` component yourself, and `markdown-it-vitepress-demo` makes this process easier.

With this plugin, you can use the `<demo>` tag in Markdown to reference a demo container. For example:

```html
<demo src="../demo.vue" title="Demo block" desc="use demo" />
```

You can use Markdown syntax in the `desc` field. For example:

```html
<demo src="../demo.vue" title="Demo block" desc="use `demo` ..." />
```

However, we recommend using the `container` mode to write the `desc` content with Markdown:

```markdown
::: demo src="../demo.vue" title="Demo block"

This is a `description` that can be written using Markdown.

:::
```

This looks more aesthetically pleasing and adheres better to Markdown syntax.

## Install

```bash
npm install markdown-it-vitepress-demo --save-dev
```

## Usage

```js
// .vitepress/config.js
export default defineConfig({
  markdown: {
    config(md) {
      md.use(require('markdown-it-vitepress-demo'))
    },
  },
})
```

Register your `<demo-container>` component in `theme/index.ts|js`:

```js
// https://vitepress.dev/guide/custom-theme
import Theme from 'vitepress/theme'
// your demo component
import CustomDemoContainer from './components/CustomDemoContainer.vue'

export default {
  ...Theme,
  enhanceApp({ app, router, siteData }) {
    app.component('demo-container', CustomDemoContainer)
  },
}
```

The `demo-container` component will receive relevant information about the demo, and you need to implement the rendering of the demo:

```html
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { computed } from 'vue'

const props = defineProps<{
  sfcTsCode: string
  // if using ts, sfcJsCode will transform the to js
  sfcJsCode: string
  sfcTsHtml: string
  sfcJsHtml: string
  title: string
  metadata: object
}>()

const sfcCode = computed(() => decodeURIComponent(props.sfcTsCode || props.sfcJsCode))
const highlightedHtml = computed(() => decodeURIComponent(props.sfcTsHtml || props.sfcJsHtml))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <div>{{ title }}</div>
    <!-- copy your demo source code -->
    <div @click="navigator.clipboard.writeText(sfcCode)"> Copy Code </div>
    <!-- The description is rendered in the desc slot -->
    <slot name="desc" />
    <!-- The demo is rendered in the default slot -->
    <slot />
    <!-- highlighted code for the demo -->
    <div class="language-vue" v-html="highlightedHtml"></div>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Metadata

The `demo-container` component will receive relevant information about the demo. You can use the `metadata` to access and use this information within the demo:

```html
<script lang="ts" setup>
const props = defineProps<{
  sfcTsCode: string
  sfcJsCode: string
  sfcTsHtml: string
  sfcJsHtml: string
  title: string
  // metadata returns information about the demo during build (absolutePath, relativePath, fileName)
  metadata: object
}>()
const githubBlobUrl = 'https://www.github.com/.../tree/main/'
const githubPath = githubBlobUrl + props.metadata.relativePath

function toEditGithubDemoFile() {
  window.open(githubPath)
}
</script>
```

## CodeSandbox

You can define the parameters for CodeSandbox by using `codesandbox/lib/api/define` and create a sandbox environment by submitting them to the CodeSandbox API through a `<form>`:

```html
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { getParameters } from 'codesandbox/lib/api/define'

const props = defineProps<{
  sfcTsCode: string
  sfcJsCode: string
  // ...
}>()

// Compute the parameters for CodeSandbox
const parameters = computed(() => {
  return getParameters({
    files: {
      'package.json': {
        // specify your dependencies
        content: { dependencies: { vue: 'latest' } },
      },
      'index.html': { content: `<div id="app"></div>` },
      'App.vue': { content: decodeURIComponent(props.sfcJsCode) },
      'src/main.js': { content: '...' },
    },
  })
})
</script>
<template>
  <!-- Form to submit the parameters to CodeSandbox -->
  <form action="https://codesandbox.io/api/v1/sandboxes/define" method="POST" target="_blank">
    <input type="hidden" name="parameters" :value="parameters">
    <button>Edit in CodeSandbox</button>
  </form>
</template>
```


## Development

```bash
pnpm install

# Run development server
pnpm dev

# Have fun!
pnpm play
```

> Unit tests are in progress, PRs welcome!

## Acknowledgements

This project draws inspiration from the following projects:

- [ruabick](https://github.com/dewfall123/ruabick)
- [vitepress-demo-preview](https://github.com/flingyp/vitepress-demo-preview)
- [create-vitepress-demo](https://github.com/bowencool/create-vitepress-demo)
- [naive-ui](https://github.com/tusen-ai/naive-ui)
- [element-plus](https://github.com/element-plus/element-plus)

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE) License © 2022 [Hairyf](https://github.com/hairyf)

Commit message:

docs: Add section about highlighting in code blocks
Added a new section to the README that explains how use the Line Highlighting in Code Blocks feature of VitePress. Included example code snippets for how to utilize the `attrs` parameter with the `props` tag to achieve in specific lines of code.

README.md, after:

# markdown-it-vitepress-demo

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/markdown-it-vitepress-demo?color=a1b858&label=)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/markdown-it-vitepress-demo)

`markdown-it-vitepress-demo` is a `markdown-it` plugin specifically designed for Vitepress demos. It converts code blocks in Markdown into references to the `<demo-container>` component. It does not generate UI itself but serves as a plugin for creating demo containers. This means that you need to implement and register the `<demo-container>` component yourself, and `markdown-it-vitepress-demo` makes this process easier.

With this plugin, you can use the `<demo>` tag in Markdown to reference a demo container. For example:

```html
<demo src="../demo.vue" title="Demo block" desc="use demo" />
```

You can use Markdown syntax in the `desc` field. For example:

```html
<demo src="../demo.vue" title="Demo block" desc="use `demo` ..." />
```

However, we recommend using the `container` mode to write the `desc` content with Markdown:

```markdown
::: demo src="../demo.vue" title="Demo block"

This is a `description` that can be written using Markdown.

:::
```

This looks more aesthetically pleasing and adheres better to Markdown syntax.


In addition, you can pass the `attrs` parameter to `props`, so you can utilize the [Line Highlighting in Code Blocks](https://vitepress.dev/guide/markdown#line-highlighting-in-code-blocks) feature of VitePress:

```markdown
<demo src="../demo.vue" attrs="{1,4,6-8}" />
<demo src="../demo.vue" attrs="{4}" />
```

## Install

```bash
npm install markdown-it-vitepress-demo --save-dev
```

## Usage

```js
// .vitepress/config.js
export default defineConfig({
  markdown: {
    config(md) {
      md.use(require('markdown-it-vitepress-demo'))
    },
  },
})
```

Register your `<demo-container>` component in `theme/index.ts|js`:

```js
// https://vitepress.dev/guide/custom-theme
import Theme from 'vitepress/theme'
// your demo component
import CustomDemoContainer from './components/CustomDemoContainer.vue'

export default {
  ...Theme,
  enhanceApp({ app, router, siteData }) {
    app.component('demo-container', CustomDemoContainer)
  },
}
```

The `demo-container` component will receive relevant information about the demo, and you need to implement the rendering of the demo:

```html
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { computed } from 'vue'

const props = defineProps<{
  sfcTsCode: string
  // if using ts, sfcJsCode will transform the to js
  sfcJsCode: string
  sfcTsHtml: string
  sfcJsHtml: string
  title: string
  metadata: object
}>()

const sfcCode = computed(() => decodeURIComponent(props.sfcTsCode || props.sfcJsCode))
const highlightedHtml = computed(() => decodeURIComponent(props.sfcTsHtml || props.sfcJsHtml))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <div>{{ title }}</div>
    <!-- copy your demo source code -->
    <div @click="navigator.clipboard.writeText(sfcCode)"> Copy Code </div>
    <!-- The description is rendered in the desc slot -->
    <slot name="desc" />
    <!-- The demo is rendered in the default slot -->
    <slot />
    <!-- highlighted code for the demo -->
    <div class="language-vue" v-html="highlightedHtml"></div>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Metadata

The `demo-container` component will receive relevant information about the demo. You can use the `metadata` to access and use this information within the demo:

```html
<script lang="ts" setup>
const props = defineProps<{
  sfcTsCode: string
  sfcJsCode: string
  sfcTsHtml: string
  sfcJsHtml: string
  title: string
  // metadata returns information about the demo during build (absolutePath, relativePath, fileName)
  metadata: object
}>()
const githubBlobUrl = 'https://www.github.com/.../tree/main/'
const githubPath = githubBlobUrl + props.metadata.relativePath

function toEditGithubDemoFile() {
  window.open(githubPath)
}
</script>
```

## CodeSandbox

You can define the parameters for CodeSandbox by using `codesandbox/lib/api/define` and create a sandbox environment by submitting them to the CodeSandbox API through a `<form>`:

```html
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { getParameters } from 'codesandbox/lib/api/define'

const props = defineProps<{
  sfcTsCode: string
  sfcJsCode: string
  // ...
}>()

// Compute the parameters for CodeSandbox
const parameters = computed(() => {
  return getParameters({
    files: {
      'package.json': {
        // specify your dependencies
        content: { dependencies: { vue: 'latest' } },
      },
      'index.html': { content: `<div id="app"></div>` },
      'App.vue': { content: decodeURIComponent(props.sfcJsCode) },
      'src/main.js': { content: '...' },
    },
  })
})
</script>
<template>
  <!-- Form to submit the parameters to CodeSandbox -->
  <form action="https://codesandbox.io/api/v1/sandboxes/define" method="POST" target="_blank">
    <input type="hidden" name="parameters" :value="parameters">
    <button>Edit in CodeSandbox</button>
  </form>
</template>
```


## Development

```bash
pnpm install

# Run development server
pnpm dev

# Have fun!
pnpm play
```

> Unit tests are in progress, PRs welcome!

## Acknowledgements

This project draws inspiration from the following projects:

- [ruabick](https://github.com/dewfall123/ruabick)
- [vitepress-demo-preview](https://github.com/flingyp/vitepress-demo-preview)
- [create-vitepress-demo](https://github.com/bowencool/create-vitepress-demo)
- [naive-ui](https://github.com/tusen-ai/naive-ui)
- [element-plus](https://github.com/element-plus/element-plus)

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE) License © 2022 [Hairyf](https://github.com/hairyf)
